README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# SCENE

<!-- badges: start -->

[![License: GPL
v3](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPLv3-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0)
[![Lifecycle:
experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-experimental-orange.svg)](https://lifecycle.r-lib.org/articles/stages.html#experimental)
<!-- badges: end -->

SCENE is a analytic tool for dissecting cellular cohabitation using single-cell and bulk RNA-seq data.

## Installation

You can install the development version from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("lijxug/SCENE")
```

## Documentation
Full documentation is being drafting and will be online soon.
A demo case is currently available at Code Ocean (Capsule DOI: 10.24433/CO.4624314.v1) [here](https://codeocean.com/capsule/7693770).

## Release Notes
- version 1.0: First released version

## Lisence
The code is released under the GNU GPL-3 License.

## Platform
SCENE is developed and tested on Linux-based machines.

<!-- This is a basic example which shows you how to solve a common problem: -->
<!-- ```{r example} -->
<!-- library(AlittleTool) -->
<!-- ## basic example code -->
<!-- ``` -->
<!-- What is special about using `README.Rmd` instead of just `README.md`? You can include R chunks like so: -->
<!-- ```{r cars} -->
<!-- summary(cars) -->
<!-- ``` -->
<!-- You'll still need to render `README.Rmd` regularly, to keep `README.md` up-to-date. `devtools::build_readme()` is handy for this. You could also use GitHub Actions to re-render `README.Rmd` every time you push. An example workflow can be found here: <https://github.com/r-lib/actions/tree/master/examples>. -->
<!-- You can also embed plots, for example: -->
<!-- ```{r pressure, echo = FALSE} -->
<!-- plot(pressure) -->
<!-- ``` -->
<!-- In that case, don't forget to commit and push the resulting figure files, so they display on GitHub and CRAN. -->

Commit message:

Update Readme with System Requirements

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# SCENE

<!-- badges: start -->

[![License: GPL
v3](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPLv3-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0)
[![Lifecycle:
experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-experimental-orange.svg)](https://lifecycle.r-lib.org/articles/stages.html#experimental)
<!-- badges: end -->

`SCENE` is a analytic tool for dissecting cellular cohabitation using single-cell and bulk RNA-seq data.

## System Requirements

### Hardware Requirements
The `SCENE` package requires computers with enough RAM to support the operations defined by a user.
Applying SCENE on 5000 samples (comprising single cells and bulk samples) requires about 12 GB of RAM and about 40 minutes to complete all calculation tasks on a workstation with 96 CPU threads. For larger cohorts, we recommend running the following functions on a high performance computer cluster and visualizing the results locally: `preprocessing2`, `determineK_runNMF`, `runcNMF`, and `identifyConsensusProgram3`.

### Software Requirements
The `SCENE` development version is developed and tested on *Linux* operating systems. The developmental version of the package has been tested on the following systems:

Linux: Ubuntu 20.04

Before setting up the `SCENE` package, users should have `R` version 4.0.5 or higher installed.

## Installation

You can install the development version from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("lijxug/SCENE")
```

Installation typically takes several minutes, depending on the installation of dependencies.

## Documentation
Full documentation is being drafting and will be online soon.
A demo case is currently available at [Code Ocean (Capsule DOI: 10.24433/CO.4624314.v1)](https://codeocean.com/capsule/7693770).
All the heavy calculations in this capsule have been performed previously.
Running this capsule online takes about 20 minutes to establish the environment and 5 minutes to print the figures.

## Release Notes
- version 1.0: First released version

## Lisence
The code is released under the GNU GPL-3 License.
